README.md, before:

# GCP vs Whisper Benchmark #
This repository provide tools to benchmark Speech-to-Text (STT) solutions from Google Cloud (Chirp) & OpenAI (Whisper).

It is structured into 3 folders:
1) **Audio_conversion**: tool to convert .mp4 video to audio files compatible with Chirp & Whisper
2) **Transcript_generation**: tool to generate TXT and SRT transcripts
3) **WER_calculation**: tools to calculate WER scores and analyze transcript quality

## Prerequisites ##
You must have a Google Cloud project with billing enabled.

The Cloud Speech-to-Text API must be enabled for the project: https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/api/speech.googleapis.com/overview

Grant the "Cloud Speech Client" role to the GCE default service account.

All the notebooks in this repository have been tested on Vertex AI Workbench notebook.  
The Notebooks API must be enabled.

Create a Vertex AI Workbench notebook:
- Operating system: Debian 11
- Environment: Python 3 (with Intel MKL)

Open the notebook.  
Clone this repository.

## Convert video files ##
Create a Google Cloud Storage bucket.  
Grant the "Storage Admin" role on the bucket to the default GCE service account.  
Create a folder in the bucket to store video files.  
Import videos into subfolders named after the language code of the source audio.  
For example:
```
├── videos
│   ├── en-US
│   │   ├── video1.mp4
│   │   ├── video2.mp4
│   ├── fr-FR
│   │   ├── video3.mp4
│   │   ├── video4.mp4
```

Run the notebook `Audio_conversion/convert_video_to_audio.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the GCS URI to the video files from the previous step and the target GCS URI to store the audio files.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, audio files should be available in the target GCS folder.  

## Generate Google Cloud TXT transcripts ##
Run the notebook `Transcript_generation/generate_gcp_txt_transcripts.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the project ID, the GCS URI to the audio files from the previous steps (remember to arrange files in subdirectories with language codes), set the target GCS URI to store the transcripts, set the model to use to generate the transcripts.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, json & txt transcripts should be available in the target GCS folder.  

## Generate Whisper TXT transcripts ##
Run the notebook `Transcript_generation/generate_whisper_transcripts.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the GCS URI to the audio files from the previous steps (remember to arrange files in subdirectories with language codes), set the target GCS URI to store the transcripts, set the model to use to generate the transcripts.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, json & txt transcripts should be available in the target GCS folder.  

## Calculate WER and generate analysis files ##
Run the notebook `WER_calculation/calculate_wer.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the GCS URI to the transcripts from the previous steps and the GCS URI to ground truth transcripts.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, the WER results will display.  
A `wer_diagnosis` folder is created containing diagnosis HTML files to highligth transcripts quality compared to ground truth.  

## (Optional)  Generate Google Cloud SRT transcripts ##
Run the notebook `Transcript_generation/generate_gcp_srt_transcripts.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the project ID, the GCS URI to the audio files and the GCS URI from the previous steps, the target GCS URI for the transcripts and the maximum number of characters to include into a given SRT chunk.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, the srt transcripts should be available in the target GCS folder.

Commit message:

Updated README.md with Chirp region option

README.md, after:

# GCP vs Whisper Benchmark #
This repository provide tools to benchmark Speech-to-Text (STT) solutions from Google Cloud (Chirp) & OpenAI (Whisper).

It is structured into 3 folders:
1) **Audio_conversion**: tool to convert .mp4 video to audio files compatible with Chirp & Whisper
2) **Transcript_generation**: tool to generate TXT and SRT transcripts
3) **WER_calculation**: tools to calculate WER scores and analyze transcript quality

## Prerequisites ##
You must have a Google Cloud project with billing enabled.

The Cloud Speech-to-Text API must be enabled for the project: https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/api/speech.googleapis.com/overview

Grant the "Cloud Speech Client" role to the GCE default service account.

All the notebooks in this repository have been tested on Vertex AI Workbench notebook.  
The Notebooks API must be enabled.

Create a Vertex AI Workbench notebook:
- Operating system: Debian 11
- Environment: Python 3 (with Intel MKL)

Open the notebook.  
Clone this repository.

## Convert video files ##
Create a Google Cloud Storage bucket.  
Grant the "Storage Admin" role on the bucket to the default GCE service account.  
Create a folder in the bucket to store video files.  
Import videos into subfolders named after the language code of the source audio.  
For example:
```
├── videos
│   ├── en-US
│   │   ├── video1.mp4
│   │   ├── video2.mp4
│   ├── fr-FR
│   │   ├── video3.mp4
│   │   ├── video4.mp4
```

Run the notebook `Audio_conversion/convert_video_to_audio.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the GCS URI to the video files from the previous step and the target GCS URI to store the audio files.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, audio files should be available in the target GCS folder.  

## Generate Google Cloud TXT transcripts ##
Run the notebook `Transcript_generation/generate_gcp_txt_transcripts.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the project ID, the GCS URI to the audio files from the previous steps (remember to arrange files in subdirectories with language codes), set the target GCS URI to store the transcripts, set the model to use to generate the transcripts and if using Chirp the region to be used.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, json & txt transcripts should be available in the target GCS folder.  

## Generate Whisper TXT transcripts ##
Run the notebook `Transcript_generation/generate_whisper_transcripts.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the GCS URI to the audio files from the previous steps (remember to arrange files in subdirectories with language codes), set the target GCS URI to store the transcripts, set the model to use to generate the transcripts.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, json & txt transcripts should be available in the target GCS folder.  

## Calculate WER and generate analysis files ##
Run the notebook `WER_calculation/calculate_wer.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the GCS URI to the transcripts from the previous steps and the GCS URI to ground truth transcripts.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, the WER results will display.  
A `wer_diagnosis` folder is created containing diagnosis HTML files to highligth transcripts quality compared to ground truth.  

## (Optional)  Generate Google Cloud SRT transcripts ##
Run the notebook `Transcript_generation/generate_gcp_srt_transcripts.ipynb`.  
Set in the 1st cell the project ID, the GCS URI to the audio files and the GCS URI from the previous steps, the target GCS URI for the transcripts, if using Chirp the region to be used and the maximum number of characters to include into a given SRT chunk.  
Run all the cells.  
When complete, the srt transcripts should be available in the target GCS folder.
